---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Input and Output

!!! tip "Quick Links"

    * [Adding Comments](#python-comments)
    * [Print Statements](#print-statement)
    * [Inputs](#input-statement)
    * [Inputting Numbers](#inputting-numbers)
	* [Input Example](#input-example)

## What you need to know

## Python Comments

All of the programs you see will have lines that start with #

!!! example
	```Python
	# This is a comment
	# The computer ignores lines that start with this symbol
	```

The computer ignores lines that start with a #. 

We call these **Internal Comments**.  

It is good practice to write these comments in your code, to remind you what particular parts do.

!!! info

	At National 5, you will be expected to use comments in your code.

## Print Statement

During most National 5 programs, you will be asked to display things on the screen.
In Python, you do this with the **print()** statement.

!!! example
	```Python
	print ("Hello world")
	print ("Welcome to", "National 5")
	print ("My name is", name)
	```

**In** the **brackets**, put the message you want to print. 

If you want to display a variable, do not use quotation marks:

!!! example
	```Python
	print(age)
	print(name)
	```

!!! note
	This would print whatever is in the variable, not the word **age** or **name**.

If you want to print a **string** and a **variable**, use a comma between the strings:

!!! example
	```Python
	print("Welcome to", "National 5")
	print("My name is", name)
	```
		
## Input Statement

When you want the user to enter data, use an input statement.

!!! example
	```Python
	# When you input a string
	name = input("Please enter your name")
	```

This shows a message on the screen 'Please enter your name' **and asks the user to type in some data**. The data they enter is stored in a variable.

!!! example
	```Python
	# Enter some data from the keyboard
	name = input("Please enter your name")

	title = input("Enter book title")
	author = input("Enter book author")
	genre = input("Enter book genre")
	```

!!! info

	The input statement will be used in almost all of your programs.

## Inputting Numbers

When you input numbers, there is an extra step you must take.

Any data that you input is automatically assumed to be a string.

Strings can contain any sort of characters, including digits.

!!! note

	It's important, if we want to use the data as a number (for example, doing a calculation with it) that we cast (convert) it from string to a number type.

## Input Example

!!! example
	```Python
	# When you input a string
	name = input("Please enter your name")

	# When you input an integer number, use int( )
	age = int(input("Enter age"))

	# When you input a real number, use float( )
	price = float(input("Enter price"))
	```