# Explanation


**Output**

In computer programs, output is the way a program communicates information to the user, usually by displaying text or results on the screen. 

It allows users to see what the program is doing, such as showing messages, displaying answers, or confirming that data has been processed. 

Without output, a program would appear to do nothing, even if it was working correctly in the background. Clear and meaningful output helps make a program easier to understand and use.

!!! example
    ```Python
    print("Hello world")
    ```

**Variables**

Variables are used to store information that the program can use and change as it runs. 

==This process is called **assignment**, as the program assigns a specific value and a name to a variable for later use.==

: **Variable Naming Rules**

: - A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
- A variable name cannot start with a number
- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
- Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)
- A variable name cannot be any of the **Python keywords**.

: and although this one is not a rule....

: - It is important to use **meaningful**/**sensible** variable names. 

!!! example "Example"

    ``` python title="Variables" linenums="1"
    name1 = ("Alice")
    name2 = ("Ben")
    name3 = ("Carla")
    name4 = ("David")
    name5 = ("Eilidh")
    ```

In addition, each variable also has a data type, which defines the kind of data it holds. 

For example, an integer stores whole numbers, a real number stores decimals, a string stores text, and a Boolean stores either true or false. 

Assigning values to variables gives the program something to work with 

: — **for example, storing a person’s age, a price, or a message**.

==At National 5 there are five data types that you must know:==

<center>

| Data Type   |Description                                  |
| :---------: |:-------------------------------------------:|
| Integer     | Whole number: 12, -50,100                   |
| Real        | With a decimal point: 22.5, 0001            |
| String      | Words and symbols: hello, abc123            |
| Character   | A single letter, digit or symbol: a, Z, $, #|
| Boolean     | True (1) or False (0)                       |

</center>

!!! example "Example"

    ``` python title="Variables" linenums="1"
    name1 = str("Alice")
    num2 = int(5)
    num3 = bool(1)
    ```
!!! Warning "Key Information"

    1. In Python Programming a Real data type is identified as a float
    2. Although you need to know what a character is, in Python Programming it is not identifiable as a data type. ==A character is just a string of 1==.

**Input**

When we want the user to enter data we use a combination of a ==**variable**== and an ==**output**== which is known as an ==**input statement**==.

!!! example
	```Python
	name = input("Please enter your name")
	```
We can also mix an input statement with different data types by identfying the type before the input.

!!! example
	```Python
	name = str(input("Please enter your name"))

    number= int(input("Please enter a number"))
	```

**String Concatenation**

String concatenation is the term used when ==joining two string variables== or a ==string== and a ==string variable== **only**.

!!! example

    ```Python
    word1 = "Hello"
    word2 = "World"

    sentence = word1 + word2
    ```

    !!! warning "Key Points"

        1. The example above doesn’t include a space, you would have to add a space to the end of **"Hello"** or the beginning of **"World"**. 

        2. Concatenation is often used to make sentences more readable in output.

        3. If you wanted to output two different data types you would use a comma between the strings:

        !!! example
            ```Python
            yearOfStudy = int(input("What year are you in? "))

            print("Welcome to", yearOfStudy)
            ```
        ‼️ **This is not string concatenation, this is just joining two variables. Do not get the two mixed up!**

**Working with Numbers**

When working with numbers, programs can carry out mathematical operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division to solve problems or process data. 

<center>

| Operator    |Purpose                                      |
| :---------: |:-------------------------------------------:|
| +           | Addition                                    |
| -           | Subtraction                                 |
| /           | Division                                    |
| **          | Raise to a power                            |

</center>
!!! Example

    ```Python linenums="1"

        num1 = int(5)
        num2 = int(7)

        # Addition
        print (num1 + num2)

        # Subtraction
        print (num1 - num2)

        # Division
        print (num1 / num2)

        # Multiplication
        print (num1 * num2)

        # Raise to a power
        print (num1 ** 2)

    ```

==Understanding how to assign, manipulate, and output both numbers and strings is essential in programming, as it allows the creation of interactive and meaningful programs that respond to user input.==