# Analysis

!!! info "What you need to Know"

    * [Inputs](#inputs)
    * [Proccesses](#processes)
    * [Outputs](#outputs)
    * [Functional Requirements - Example 1](#functional-requirements-example-1)
    * [Functional Requirements - Example 2](#functional-requirements-example-2)

# Functional Requirements (Inputs, Processes and Outputs)

## Inputs

`Inputs` are what goes ‘in’ to the program - a common example would be anything the user is asked to type in.

## Processes

`Processes` are the ‘thinking’ done by the program. It might be a calculation (adding to a score), checking something (has the player won yet?) or any other ‘thinking’ the program has to do.

## Outputs

`Outputs` are what goes ‘out’ of the program - for National 5, these are often  messages printed on the screen.

## Functional Requirements Example 1

> You’ve been asked to write a program that asks for the name and age of everyone in the class. It then calculates the average, and displays that on the screen.

* The inputs are the names and ages.
  
* The process is calculating the average.
  
* The output is the average that is displayed.

## Functional Requirements Example 2

> You have been asked to write a program for a GPS car navigation system. The program asks the user for their destination. It connects to a satellite to get its current position. It calculates a route, and tells the user how long it expects the journey to take, as well as displaying the route on a map.

* The inputs are the user’s destination, and the satellite position.

* The process is calculating the route.
  
* The outputs are how long the journey should take and the displayed map.