#  The Six Stages of Development

### Analysis

> What is the purpose of the program? 

> What features will it have? (This is known as functional requirements)

> What are the inputs, process and outputs?

> What data structures and data types will be used?

### Design

> The more planning you do the quicker the creation of the final product will be

> Break a problem into chunks 

> Use diagrams to create and algorithm

> Pseudocode, Structure Diagrams and Flowcharts

### Implementation

> Create the solution to the problem

> Use previously designed Algorithms to signpost the way

### Testing

> All work needs to be checked thoroughly for errors. 

> Rigorous testing to systematically check every single operation/event.

> Rigorously test a range of scenarios to make sure the program does what it is supposed to.

### Documentation

> Collate diagrams, algorithms and testing tables.

> These documents together form the wider documentation (user guide & technical guide).

> It is important that documentation is clear.

> Documentation should also show what each person did and what has happened thus far. 

### Evaluation

> Fit for Purpose - does it do what it is supposed to do?

> Efficient use of Coding Constructs  - correct use of repetition, arrays (instead of variables) and selection statements where possible to reduce the amount of code?

> Robustness – can it cope with unexpected or incorrect input?

> Readability - it is important to write code that can be read and understood by others. This should include internal commentary, meaningful identifiers, indentation and white space.